## CloneCraft

An implementation of a simple voxel game inspired by Minecraft.
It is written in C++ 17 and uses OpenGL 3.3 and SFML 2.5.
The game is written with efficiency and simplicity in mind.

[Screenshot](/Docs/screenshot.png)

### Controls

* WASD, space and left shift to move
* Left-click to destroy a block
* Right-click to place a block
* Middle-click to pick a block
* Mouse wheel to zoom
* T to teleport
* E to create explosion

### Implementation details

#### World

The world consists of chunks that are loaded and unloaded as the player moves.
These chunks are divided in sections of 32x32x32 blocks and are unlimited in height.

#### Terrain generation

The terrain consists of multiple octaves of perlin noise.
Biomes are generated using noises representing temperature and altitude.
A smooth interpolation allows to make smooth transitions between biomes.
The structures are generated by dividing the world horizontally in small areas and randomly selecting a potential position in an area.

#### Mesh creation

Meshes are generated in each section to represent blocks and water. A mesh consists of potentially visible faces of a block. Aligned blocks with the same texture are merged in a same face.

#### Rendering

Blocks and water are rendered using shaders.
The block textures are stored in an OpenGL texture array.
The fog and water effects are implemented in the shaders.
The water reflection is simulated by rendering the world symetrically and drawing it on the water position.
Movements in the water are created with a DuDv map.
Only visible chunks are rendered using frustum culling.

#### Target block

The block the player is pointing at is found by calculating iteratively each block in the line of sight of the player.
This is more precise than the naive step by step method.

### Future additions

* Collisions
* Dynamic lighting
* Water physics
* Simple electricity system
* Ambient occlusion
* Workaround to stop using refraction texture twice